Welcome to work Book 10.1.
I created this workbook because many of you have asked me how one would connect a springboard application
to a MySQL database.
Now, installing my SQL on your machine can get pretty tedious depending on if you're installing it
on Windows, MacBook and 1m2 versus Intel.
So instead of having a video for each one, I decided to just run my SQL from a docker container.
Because this is not a Docker course.
I'm going to be very brief.
A Docker container is a lightweight package that contains only your application and only the resources
that the application needs to run.
Nothing else.
So the Docker container we're going to run is only going to run an instance of my SQL, nothing else.
In order to run the docker container, we need to have a Docker up and running.
So if you're using a mac, you should see a whale icon on the top, right?
If you're using windows, you should see the whale on the bottom right list of icons.
Anyways.
I currently do not have Docker running, so what I'll do is I will open it up.
I'll give it a chance to start.
I will try running the command docker version.
We're looking good.
All right.
So how are we going to run MySQL from a docker container?
I gave you a docker compose file that I hope you opened up by following this path in your course resources.
And I left you some explanations for every single field.
So this Docker container is going to run an instance of my SQL eight.
It's going to grab an image of my SQL eight.
We can pass some environment variables into our MySQL server in order to set up a database called DB,
which we're going to be connecting to.
And the MySQL credentials needed to make calls to the database will be user and password, and the default
root user will also have a password of password.
My school is going to run on port 3306.
The container will expose that port and it's going to save all of that data with any volume that exists
on your machine.
So that if you were to ever stop the Docker container and start it up again, the data will still be
there.
All right.
So what we'll do is run this Docker container by saying Docker, compose up.
All right, going back over here.
I told you to copy all of these properties into your application properties file.
You'll remember that our container is exposing port 3306.
That's where my SQL is running.
We're connecting to that, and we're connecting to a database DB.
You'll remember, these are the credentials we need in order to authenticate and make calls to the database.
This ensures that every time we rerun the app, it's going to drop existing tables and create new ones.
Based on what you have now in a production scenario, you wouldn't actually want this, but we're going
to keep it.
And because the Docker container is running my SQL eight, we specify a dialect of my SQL eight.
So that Hibernate, which is what spring data JPA uses as an implementation so that it knows to generate
the appropriate SQL statements.
All right, let's run our application.
Think we're good.
Now, if you notice some errors pop up the first time you run this.
That's fine.
They shouldn't appear the second time you run it.
So feel free to test that out.
But anyways, we just connected our spring boot up to a running instance of MySQL that is running in
our machine.
And if you go to our main class, you'll notice here that it's saving a bunch of students.
It's saving a bunch of courses.
How can we actually view this data?
Before we had the H to console for my SQL.
We're going to use the my SQL workbench.
So I'm already connected to the SQL instance over here.
But for the sake of it, I'll create a new SQL connection.
The connection name can be anything.
I don't know.
Let's call it my SQL connection.
How about my you all eight?
All right.
This is local host.
We're fine.
3306.
The username we're going to say user.
Password will be password.
Test the connection.
All right.
From the MySQL workbench.
We've also been able to connect to the MySQL instance that's currently running.
So let us go to it.
All right, click on Schemas and here we can see the database DB.
And all of the tables that spring created.
This is looking really good.
We can query the data as follows.
You can say Select everything from.
We'll start from the database.
Name DB dot table name course.
We'll copy this.
More and more times, we'll view everything from course students.
From grade, from student.
Press.
The symbol over here.
All right.
And now what we can do is toggle through each of these tables and view the data.
We have data for courses.
We have data for students.
We don't have any data over here because we did not save any grades.
And accordingly, there is nothing in the joint table.
And there's one thing I want to mention that's really, really important.
Docker can be really, really heavy.
So if you ever find that your machine is slowing down, please quit Dr. Desktop.
And if you find that every time you restart your computer or dock or reopens and you don't want it to,
there should be a setting if you click on it that disables it from running every time you restart your
machine.
All right.
And that is really it.
This was just a little, little taste of what Docker can do, how powerful Docker is.
Instead of installing stuff on our local machine and making sure it's compatible with whatever you have
set up, know you can just run it inside of a standalone container that only contains Maskell and nothing
else.
Anyways, this is not a Docker chorus, so I'll just leave it at that.
This is how we can run my SQL the easiest way.
And that is amazing.
So let's pick up where we left off in another video.